README.rst, before:

===================
*Argon2* for Python
===================

.. image:: https://img.shields.io/badge/Docs-Read%20The%20Docs-black
   :target: https://argon2-cffi.readthedocs.io/
   :alt: Documentation

.. image:: https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-C06524
   :target: https://github.com/hynek/argon2-cffi/blob/main/LICENSE
   :alt: License: MIT

.. image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/argon2-cffi
   :target: https://pypi.org/project/argon2-cffi/
   :alt: PyPI version

.. image:: https://static.pepy.tech/personalized-badge/argon2-cffi?period=month&units=international_system&left_color=grey&right_color=blue&left_text=Downloads%20/%20Month
   :target: https://pepy.tech/project/argon2-cffi
   :alt: Downloads / Month


.. -begin-short-

`Argon2 <https://github.com/p-h-c/phc-winner-argon2>`_ won the `Password Hashing Competition <https://www.password-hashing.net/>`_ and *argon2-cffi* is the simplest way to use it in Python and PyPy:

.. code-block:: pycon

  >>> from argon2 import PasswordHasher
  >>> ph = PasswordHasher()
  >>> hash = ph.hash("correct horse battery staple")
  >>> hash  # doctest: +SKIP
  '$argon2id$v=19$m=65536,t=3,p=4$MIIRqgvgQbgj220jfp0MPA$YfwJSVjtjSU0zzV/P3S9nnQ/USre2wvJMjfCIjrTQbg'
  >>> ph.verify(hash, "correct horse battery staple")
  True
  >>> ph.check_needs_rehash(hash)
  False
  >>> ph.verify(hash, "Tr0ub4dor&3")
  Traceback (most recent call last):
    ...
  argon2.exceptions.VerifyMismatchError: The password does not match the supplied hash

.. -end-short-


.. -begin-meta-

Project Information
===================

*argon2-cffi* is available from `PyPI <https://pypi.org/project/argon2-cffi/>`_, the documentation lives at `Read the Docs <https://argon2-cffi.readthedocs.io/>`_, the code on `GitHub <https://github.com/hynek/argon2-cffi>`_.
The low-level Argon2 CFFI bindings are maintained in the separate project `argon2-cffi-bindings <https://github.com/hynek/argon2-cffi-bindings>`_.

It targets Python 3.6 and newer, and PyPy3.
The last version that works with Python 2.7 is 20.1.0, and the last version that works with Python 3.5 is 21.1.0.


*argon2-cffi* for Enterprise
----------------------------

Available as part of the Tidelift Subscription.

The maintainers of *argon2-cffi* and thousands of other packages are working with Tidelift to deliver commercial support and maintenance for the open source packages you use to build your applications. Save time, reduce risk, and improve code health, while paying the maintainers of the exact packages you use. `Learn more. <https://tidelift.com/subscription/pkg/pypi-argon2-cffi?utm_source=undefined&utm_medium=referral&utm_campaign=enterprise&utm_term=repo>`_

.. -end-meta-

Commit message:

Redo CI (#128)
* Update .gitignore

* Simplify packaging, move mypy config to pyproject.toml

* Reflow Tidelift spiel

* Freshen up contribution guide

* Update CI

* Modernize tox & CI

* 3.11

* Don't pass args to build in CI

* oops

* Add wheel/dist inspection

* Simplify conf.py

* fix

* simplify

* Clarify license

* cleanup

* docs

* add missing _

* parallel output sucks

README.rst, after:

===================
*Argon2* for Python
===================

.. image:: https://img.shields.io/badge/Docs-Read%20The%20Docs-black
   :target: https://argon2-cffi.readthedocs.io/
   :alt: Documentation

.. image:: https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-C06524
   :target: https://github.com/hynek/argon2-cffi/blob/main/LICENSE
   :alt: License: MIT

.. image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/argon2-cffi
   :target: https://pypi.org/project/argon2-cffi/
   :alt: PyPI version

.. image:: https://static.pepy.tech/personalized-badge/argon2-cffi?period=month&units=international_system&left_color=grey&right_color=blue&left_text=Downloads%20/%20Month
   :target: https://pepy.tech/project/argon2-cffi
   :alt: Downloads / Month


.. -begin-short-

`Argon2 <https://github.com/p-h-c/phc-winner-argon2>`_ won the `Password Hashing Competition <https://www.password-hashing.net/>`_ and *argon2-cffi* is the simplest way to use it in Python and PyPy:

.. code-block:: pycon

  >>> from argon2 import PasswordHasher
  >>> ph = PasswordHasher()
  >>> hash = ph.hash("correct horse battery staple")
  >>> hash  # doctest: +SKIP
  '$argon2id$v=19$m=65536,t=3,p=4$MIIRqgvgQbgj220jfp0MPA$YfwJSVjtjSU0zzV/P3S9nnQ/USre2wvJMjfCIjrTQbg'
  >>> ph.verify(hash, "correct horse battery staple")
  True
  >>> ph.check_needs_rehash(hash)
  False
  >>> ph.verify(hash, "Tr0ub4dor&3")
  Traceback (most recent call last):
    ...
  argon2.exceptions.VerifyMismatchError: The password does not match the supplied hash

.. -end-short-


.. -begin-meta-

Project Information
===================

- **License**: `MIT <https://choosealicense.com/licenses/mit/>`_
- **PyPI**: https://pypi.org/project/argon2-cffi/
- **Source Code**: https://github.com/hynek/argon2-cffi
- **Documentation**: https://argon2-cffi.readthedocs.io/
- **Changelog**: https://github.com/hynek/argon2-cffi/blob/main/CHANGELOG.md
- **Supported Python Versions**: 3.6 and later

The low-level Argon2 CFFI bindings are maintained in the separate project `argon2-cffi-bindings <https://github.com/hynek/argon2-cffi-bindings>`_.


*argon2-cffi* for Enterprise
----------------------------

Available as part of the Tidelift Subscription.

The maintainers of *argon2-cffi* and thousands of other packages are working with Tidelift to deliver commercial support and maintenance for the open-source packages you use to build your applications.
Save time, reduce risk, and improve code health, while paying the maintainers of the exact packages you use.
`Learn more. <https://tidelift.com/subscription/pkg/pypi-argon2-cffi?utm_source=undefined&utm_medium=referral&utm_campaign=enterprise&utm_term=repo>`_

.. -end-meta-
